---
title: Website By Design
subtitle: Your Professional Website Designer
seo:
  title: UI Kit
  description: This is the UI kit page
  extra:
    - name: 'og:type'
      value: website
      keyName: property
    - name: 'og:title'
      value: UI Kit
      keyName: property
    - name: 'og:description'
      value: This is the UI kit page
      keyName: property
    - name: 'twitter:card'
      value: summary
    - name: 'twitter:title'
      value: UI Kit
    - name: 'twitter:description'
      value: This is the UI kit page
layout: page
---
**What makes a good website?** a good[ website](https://websitebydesign.co.uk)
 should shine in both form and function. Your website should have a 
clear purpose. A website should not only look great it should also have a
 responsive design. Having a responsive design will make your site look 
great on just about all devices. A good website should load quickly, it 
should be easy to navigate and has a clear goal. Your site should have a
 wide variety of user-centered content. A Website should be compelling 
to its readers.<https://websitebydesign.co.uk/serving-images-in-next-gen-image-format/>



A good website should be[ trustworthy](https://blog.majestic.com/commentary/inside-trust-flow/) and safe to use. Any website worth its salt should have a correctly installed[ SSL certificate](https://letsencrypt.org/) and use a secure[ SSL policy](https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/td/docs/security/firesight/541/user-guide/FireSIGHT-System-UserGuide-v5401/SSL-Policy-Starting.html).


SSL certificates help to prove that a connection to the website is 
valid. 



Moreover, SSL certificates can stop hackers from eavesdropping on
 a website’s traffic by encrypting connections between the user and the 
server.



## **SEO Search Engine Optimization**

Above all, a good website should be able to talk directly with search engines and use[ holistic SEO](https://yoast.com/holistic-seo/). This means the website should implement an[ SEO strategy](https://backlinko.com/seo-strategy) that takes every aspect of the website into account. Writing the entire website around SEO,[ Keyword research](https://moz.com/beginners-guide-to-seo/keyword-research) putting a good[ link-building strategy](https://ahrefs.com/blog/link-building-strategies/) in place. Search engines should be able to[ crawl and index your website](https://www.google.com/intl/en_uk/search/howsearchworks/crawling-indexing/) easily. Your website should not only have a good variety of[ outbound links](https://blog.alexa.com/outbound-links-content-marketing/) it should make use of[ inbound links](https://blog.hubspot.com/marketing/inbound-links-faqs). Keep website visitors focused on your website and provide meaningful content.

## **Technical prowess**

Good websites shouldn’t have many errors high-quality websites should
 load quickly from any part of the world. Picking a reputable hosting 
company that offers the fastest servers that are reliable and offer the 
latest hardware and software. How quickly a user can access your website
 can certainly play a huge role in generating leads from your website. 
It’s best to have full access to the webserver. We recommend using VPS 
or dedicated hosting that will give you full root access to the 
webserver. Having root access to a server allows you to change 
configuration settings and install the software.

## **Mobile-First**

A good website should be designed responsively with mobile devices in mind first.[ Mobile traffic keeps growing](https://www.statista.com/statistics/277125/share-of-website-traffic-coming-from-mobile-devices/)
 and growing every single year. A lot of websites design their website 
in desktop view first. Then cram the site down as much as they can to 
fit a responsive mobile view. Designing your website around[ mobile-first](https://yoast.com/5-things-about-mobile-first-indexing/)
 helps to establish a fresh feel to your website. Mobile-first websites 
allow you to experiment with the different features you can offer to 
your mobile visitors. Google announced in March 2018 that it will start 
implementing mobile-first indexing. They have recently rolled out 
mobile-first indexing for the entire web in September 2020. While it may
 not make a massive impact on your website ranking. Having a 
mobile-first website can help speed up how quickly Google and other 
leading search engines will index your site.

## **SEO Metadescriptons **

Titles and[ meta descriptions](https://yoast.com/meta-descriptions/) must be added. This helps[ Google](https://google.com) and other search engines know the content of your web pages. [Google](https://google.com)
 creates snippets to display their search results if your website gets a
 lot of mobile traffic. Google then optimizes your website’s meta 
descriptions to suit the style for a[ mobile snippet](https://www.semrush.com/blog/how-to-earn-google-featured-snippets-mobile-study/).
 In addition, snippets summarize a web page’s content and are highly 
useful to search engines and website visitors. Meta descriptions help 
make it clear to your audience what your page is about.

## **Images**

Images on a website should have a purpose; they should be sized correctly, compressed, and hosted in a next-gen image format. By[ compressing images](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Image_compression)
 and keeping our website simplified we can save a lot of bandwidth. Over
 time not only will we save quite a lot of bandwidth. We can also 
display our web pages to visitors lightning fast.

## **Bandwidth**

[Bandwidth savings](https://www.cloudflare.com/en-gb/learning/cdn/how-cdns-reduce-bandwidth-cost/)
 matter for example, when it comes to hosting a website. The more 
unnecessary bulky code and images that subsequently, will make your 
website slower consequently your website slow as bulky images consume 
more bandwidth. By using a content delivery system we can drastically 
speed up a website during, load times. CDN’s work by caching the pages 
of your website.

## **Typography**

Typography and formatting play an important role in your website’s 
design. For instance, different fonts can spur different emotions in 
readers. The[ psychology of fonts](https://design.tutsplus.com/articles/the-psychology-of-fonts--cms-34943)
 is a powerful tool when it comes to designing a high-quality website. 
The choice of fonts can go a long way when it comes to your website’s 
design. Unique and independent fonts can give brands a stand-apart 
identity and help their business stand out from the pack.

## **CMS Content Management System**

A[ CMS content management system](https://www.optimizely.com/optimization-glossary/content-management-system/)
 can help website designers and users manage website content. CMS can 
help website administrators speed up their websites without the need for
 heavy technical skills.

## **Conclusion**

In conclusion, [Website design](https://websitebydesign.co.uk)
 is just one aspect of what makes a good website. However, there is a 
lot of work that’s often done in the background such as backend 
management tasks, server hardening, minification. Website backup among 
other demanding tasks.

There is a lot of work that needs to be done to create the perfect 
website. Certainly, it’s not as simple as just buying a domain name and 
signing up for a hosting plan with some random host. High-quality 
websites have a clear plan and an understanding of how the web works. 
Most importantly, when it comes to building a high-quality website is 
having the right strategy. No matter what type of website you are 
creating, for example, a business website. This article will help you 
make good decisions while designing your website.

 
